# Band gap calculation
## Overview
This tool is used to automate band gap determination. We propose a method that allows to make a fully automated band gap energy analysis for thin-film libraries. This method is simple, fast, robust to preprocessing errors and unifies the problems of curvature evaluation, curve decomposition and Tauc segmentation extraction. The main idea is to decompose the given curve by breakpoints and select the fragment which contains the most linear feature that could represent Tauc segment. The breakpoints are divided into cusps and inflection points by testing their significant changes in curvature using adaptive smoothing techniques. Applying this method to experimental data indicated that it could handle all kinds of thin-film library data without prior knowledge.

## Basic algrithm
The detailed algrithm used in this tool could be found in xxx. Below is just a 
In our method, the initial breakpoints between decomposed fragments are defined as either cusps or inflection points. Cusps and inflection points, which are mathematically simple, are the most significant features for straight-line segment identification. A cusp stands for a point between two consecutive convex or concave, whereas an inflection point is a point where the curve changes from being convex to concave or vice versa. Their detection is related to local curvature characteristics such as extremes or stationary point, and several examples are shown in Figure 2. For example, the local minimum curvature happens when the inflection point preceded by a convex and followed by a concave means, while local maximum occurs when an inflection point experiences the reverse way. 